You have reviewed your privacy policies and are satisfied that they are complete and easy to understand.
You have clearly delineated who, within your organization, is responsible for privacy governance and management.
You have privacy policies and practices that apply to the personal information of your employees as well as that of your customers.
You have appointed at least one person to be responsible for the organization’s overall compliance with PIPEDA.
You have directed staff to provide the contact information of the privacy officer upon request.
You use contractual agreements to ensure a comparable level of privacy protection is offered to personal information while it is in the custody of a third party for processing.
You have verified that third parties have implemented the privacy controls stated in any contractual agreements.
You are accountable for the protection of personal information.
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “identifying purpose” regarding personal information.
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “consent” regarding personal information.
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “limiting collection” of personal information.
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “limiting use, disclosure and retention” of personal information
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “accuracy” regarding personal information.
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “safeguards” with respect to personal information.
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “openness” regarding personal information.
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “individual access” regarding personal information.
Your privacy framework addresses the principle of “challenging compliance” regarding personal information.
You have communicated information related to personal information handling policies, procedures and practices to staff.
You have trained staff regarding the protection of personal information by informing them of organizational privacy policies, procedures and best practices.
You have the means in place to identify which of your staff should be trained in privacy, including new staff and refresher training of existing staff.
You have developed documentation to explain your personal information protection policies and procedures to customers and the general public.
You identify why you are collecting personal information at or before the time of collection.
You have documented your purpose(s) for collecting personal information.
You have notified clients and customers of new purposes for which you will use information if they weren’t identified at the time information was collected.
You seek the consent of clients and customers before using information for any new purpose if required.
You have notified clients and customers of the purposes before using or disclosing the information if notification at the time of collection was not practicable.
You have determined the amounts and types of personal information needed to fulfill your purpose(s).
You have determined why you are collecting personal information and that the amount and types of personal information collected are reasonable in normal business circumstances. You have distinguished between essent
You distinguish between essential and non-essential information and notify clients accordingly.
You obtain customer consent for any collection, use or disclosure of personal information.
You make reasonable efforts to ensure that clients and customers are notified of the purposes for which personal information will be used or disclosed.
You do not require clients to consent to the collection, use or disclosure of personal information beyond what is necessary.
You allow a client or customer to withdraw consent at any time subject to legal or contractual restrictions.
You inform clients and customers of the implication of the withdrawal of consent.
You limit the amount and type of personal information you collect to what is necessary for the identified purpose.
You collect information only by fair and lawful means.
You document the specific types of information you collect along with the purposes for collection.
You distinguish between mandatory and optional collection of personal information.
You limit your collection of Social Insurance Numbers (SIN) to legally established purposes.
You do not use or disclose information for purposes beyond those for which it was collected, except with consent.
You only retain personal information as long as necessary to allow for the fulfillment of identified purposes.
Your privacy management framework governs the destruction of personal information, including contractor responsibilities.
You take reasonable measures to ensure that personal information is accurate, complete and up-to-date.
You only update personal information if the process is necessary to fulfill the purposes for which it was collected.
You allow individuals to challenge the accuracy of personal information and amend it if needed.
You record when and where key information was collected, including dates of corrections or updates.
You conduct periodic spot-checks to ensure information accuracy.
You have adopted safeguards to protect personal information against unauthorized access, disclosure, copying, use or modification.
You choose security safeguards that are appropriate to the sensitivity of the information.
You protect all personal information regardless of the format in which it is held.
You make employees aware of the importance of maintaining confidentiality.
You have policies for securely disposing of personal information.
You make information regarding policies and procedures related to personal information management available to individuals.
You explain to customers why you collect, how you use, and when you will disclose their personal information.
You provide information on who to contact regarding privacy inquiries or complaints.
You provide a description of personal information you hold and what you disclose to other organizations.
You describe how individuals can access and correct their personal information.
You have policies and procedures for responding to requests for personal information under PIPEDA.
You inform individuals of the existence, use, and disclosure of their personal information upon written request.
You provide individuals with access to their personal information upon request.
You provide an account of the uses of personal information upon request.
You allow individuals to challenge the accuracy of personal information and amend it if needed.
You enable individuals to address compliance challenges to the designated privacy officer.
You have policies for receiving and responding to privacy complaints.
You advise individuals of their right to make complaints to regulatory bodies.
You investigate all complaints received about your personal information handling practices.
You take corrective action if a complaint is substantiated and work to prevent recurrence.